CS521 Final Project

I believe that this program is useful because of the hit Netflix series "Formula 1: Drive to Survive".  "Formula 1: Drive to Survive" follows the annual Formula 1 teams throughout the year of Formula 1 racing and gives a behind the scenes look at the drivers, teams, races and what goes into winning a Formula One World Championship. It is no doubt that this series has increased viewership for Formula 1 races and introduced new viewers to the sport. One country that this series has had a huge impact on is the United States. Viewership and fandom of Formula 1 has increased in the United States due to this Netflix series but a problem with this is that most of the races are in counties with various timezones. For the new viewer this can be troublesome as the time to view these races is usually early on the weekends.

 My program helps a new viewer plan out their future viewership schedule. By providing a the user with a file full of the Formula 1 race names, location, local race time, race time converted to EST and time until the race, a viewer will be able to avoid missing races by sleeping in. Trust me, from experience it can be hard to keep track of when you need to wakeup in order to catch a race. This program eliminates the guess work and allows a fan to catch every race!

The programs adaptability to multiple season of Formula 1 allow a user to continue to use it in the future. The user must just update the url provided to the main function and the program continue to function. As well a user can save the file and access it whenever they please. While the time until the race data will not be updated. The race name, race location, local time, and time in est will still be valid.If new races are added, a quick addition to the time conversion table will allow the user to continue to see all the information that would normally be provided. Once the time data conversion table is fully fleshed out with all future and past races, the program will continue to function as it should indefinitely. 

The program does lack some capabilities. It can not covert to any timezone, it is reliant on the developer to update the time zone conversion table, it is reliant on valid data being parsed, the data format being consistent, and the json keys from the Formula 1 schedule url being consistent. These are future tasks that I will undertake as this program is one I have found myself using many times over already. Additionally I would like to add a comparison of the previous years fastest lap and the fastest sectors and present that information to the user. Converting this program to an application that displays the information to the user in a GUI will also be a task I plan to undertake.

Overall, I believe this program will help any new viewer to Formula 1. It provides the data in an easy to read method without having to deal with the struggles of the Formula 1 website. 
